---
title: "Notes on Let's Talk Money by Monika Halan"
date: 2025-04-06
summary: 'The proces of building a comfortable life, then think about wealth creation.' 
description: "In our world, money is a means to build a comfortable life for us and for people around us."
shiftedoc: false
readTime: true
autonumber: false
math: false
toc: true
tags: ["Finance", "Money", "Savings", "Wealth"]
showTags: true
hideBackToTop: false
categories: ["Notes"]
weight: 1
draft: true
---

## Money management

Managing your finance is very crucial and important thing, it doesn't matter if your very wealthy or if you think if you 
don't have time or enough money to start managing it. Money management must be done and should be done with discipline 
because this is the source and means to have worldly things, This is used when you need a service.

You have worked hard to earn this so you must protect and mange this.

### Preparing for uncertainty

We work and then get paid, out of that payment, some part goes to government which is the direct tax part. And from the
rest of money we try full-fill our needs and wants. Life is very uncertain and to handle those uncertainty we need to do savings.


Now people can say that I don't earn enough to do savings, that could be true if your monthly expenses are more than your monthly earnings.
If you are someone who is in this situation, I can only say to you is, try to reduce your monthly expenses and increase your monthly income,
either by working extra hours (ofcourse without getting burnt out). try different option. Anyway this note is not about what
are the different ways to increase your income, this is about how to manage your money.

Before reading pre-requisite are build a budget, have an idea of your monthly expenses, how much you want to save.
Some part of your savings would go towards wealth creation and some would go towards building a buffer for emergencies and un-foreseen life events.

Hope we have not forgotten about the covid days, where many people's job got affected so we must prepare out self for that.



### The Pay Day Habbit/Discipline

When you get salary, first thing what you can do is move your monthly expenses to a different bank account. and try to stick 
to you budget and spend for this account only. the amount left in your bank account are now is left for wealth creation and savings
If it's possible try to invest first few days after getting the salary, so that you don't feel tempted to spend thinking you have lots of money in account.

For this you can have minimum two and maximum three bank accounts, this is just my personal observation, I use one account to get the salary
and move a chunk for monthly expenses, and move another section to a different account just for emergency funds, It's easily accessible to me when i need it
But i won't be looking at that account on daily use, so when I check balance of my expenses account before buying things I can get a realistic idea that
if i can afford it or not.

My idea is if you have less control over yourself, what you can do is to build restrictions and limitations so that you can control yourself.
If you have great amount of discipline, then it's all well and good. 


### Investment

Before we dive into the topic of wealth creation, I would like to talk about saving the wealth you are trying to build.
Medical inflation in india is roughly about 15%. A saying is majority of indian middle class family is one medical bill away from going below poverty line.
One hospital visit for 2 day would easily cost you around 1.5 to 4L, God forbid if you have to face any big medical emergency then it might cost
you around 10L to 25L. saving 10L to 25L might take you around 3 to 7 year or more. but for saving life of you closed one you won't hesitate to spend all
your life's savings.

#### Protecting the Wealth

##### Health Insurance

Buy a health insurance from a trusted company, do check their settlement ratio and the feedback from online reviews and people around you.
You must also read the policy documents properly, what diseases are covered in which situation and condition.
This would protect you from the uncertain medical emergencies. 

My advice is to take two different health insurance, One for your parents and a different one for you, your spouse and kids.
For parents depending on you budget and their health condition 20L to 40L would be okay, and a separate 15 to 25L for yourself and family would be good.
Take care of your health in general would be a good thing.

##### Life Insurance (Term Plan) 

This is in the situation when there is death of the bread winner happened, This would work as a safety net for your family, in the event when 
you are not around to take care of them, and you had a few loans and now the family is not in a situation to pay that.
This amount can be used to clear out the loans and also to future-proof your family.

Insurance company provides you the plan for 22-25 times of current life value, which is roughly you early salary multiplied by 22 to 25
That mount is going to be sufficient for your family.

Catch is even if you have taken a very high amount plan and paid all your premiums companies generally denies that
and if the value is too low it would be enough for you family. So it your responsibility to find a balance and it would be better to consult
people around you. And again read the documents very carefully as you won't want your family to be in trouble when you are not around.
Share the details of insurance with you family members and some closed ones who would help you when you are not there.


##### Building a buffer

If you have done the above things that's great, if not please at-least take a health insurance for now and then your budgets permists
you can buy a term plan for your self.

This money is required and would be used when you lose your job or when you don't have a job.
From your monthly salary you should build some liquid cash that can be used in the difficult times.

Whatever is your monthly expenses, you must try to save at-least 6 month of that expenses in a liquid fund.
Start slow, build runway for 3 months then slowly increase to 6 month then 12 months. 

This give you room to think before taking a job, this liquid cash can also be used to give to your trusted people in their time of need.
But first take care of your self and have a breathing room to decide what you want.

You can use FDs to park your money, they give you very less interest but the idea here is to reduce the risk of what you have.
So good old-fashioned FDS are a good way to park money.


#### Generating the Wealth

Now if you have a health insurance, may be a term insurance and some liquid cash. We can use your money to build wealth.
Building wealth depends on your risk appetite. you can put your money into stock market where the risk is high,
F&O where risk is very, very high or mutual funds, where risk is still high, but you are handing over your money to some Fund managers
which are expert in this so loosing all you money is slightly less, in exchange for their service you give them a certain percentage share.

If you have time to invest and risk appetite you can go for stock markets and F&O.
I feel like if you can invest time and do your research you can money out of this, but if you are a working professional,
where investing 2 3 hrs of you day in research and observing the market is not possible, you can go with Mutual funds.

You can research about mutual funds, their type and depending on your goal you can invest.
Historically it's very rare that Mutual funds have given a negative return on long term, but yes its possible that the return you
got might be less than what you had expected.

As mutual funds & stock market all depends on many factors which are not in your control, risk is always involved, 
but Mutual funds are slightly better.

Pick handful of Mutual funds, keep you portfolio diverse, and dont miss the SIP you would be sorted for the most part.



## Personal Points

Personally I am doing all of those things that I have written, I have a health insurance, a term plan, and a liquid cash of 6 months
that I am trying to increase to 12 months, and I try not to miss my SIPS.

Have your bank accounts and FDs in a nationalised bank, not in co-operative bank or local banks, I have two examples where 
people where not able to take out their own money because the bank went bankrupt, Although Yes Bank has faced similar thing
but nationalised bank risk is slightly lower.

Building a pile of liquid fund and Investment can be done together, initially when you don't have any or less funds, you can put 
majority of your savings in building the fund and rest you can put in investment, when you reach your desired mark, you can increase
the investment part by reducing the funds part, and so on, when you have fully reached your goal, all the saved amount can be
used to put towards investment.

You might think that you can take out the money from your SIPs and use it when its emergency, but as market is volatile
and if covid like situation happened then you may see a dip in the market, and that is not the time to take out the money.
As you would lose your money if things are in negative. So it's always a good idea to have a liquid fund. 

In addition to above I also follow the `50-30-20 rule` , which is 50% of your income goes towards your needs like, house rent,
bills, EMI Payments etc. 30% goes for your wants like travel, or nice to have things, or any ting you want to.
20% must be your savings. Depending on you age and income and expenses you can tweak the percentage. but try to save at-least
20% of your monthly salary.

Also, every year step up your total SIP value by 10%. If you get bonus or money in other form, try to save some part from that too.

you can find lots content of content on `50-30-20 rule` and `Step-up-SIP` on the internet, `Ankur Warikoo` has also made view 
videos on this topic you can follow that too.


## Conclusion

Finance is everyone's personal choice, how they manage their money is on them.
these points just serve as an skeleton, or if you don't know where to start you can follow the above point after carefully thinking about this.
When you get more knowledge about money management, you can tweak at your own will. 

Happy financing.....!!!!













